Philemon

Phlm.1:1 Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, unto Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellow labourer,
Phlm.1:2 And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellow soldier, and to the church in your house:
Phlm.1:3 Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Phlm.1:4 I thank my God, making mention of you always in my prayers,
Phlm.1:5 Hearing of your love  and faith, which you have toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all saints;
Phlm.1:6 That the communication of your faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus.
Phlm.1:7 For we have great joy and consolation in your love,  because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by you, brother.
Phlm.1:8 Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to admonish you that which is convenient,
Phlm.1:9 Yet for love's  sake I rather plead to you, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
Phlm.1:10 I plead to you for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds:
Phlm.1:11 Which in time past was to you useless, but now profitable to you and to me:
Phlm.1:12 Whom I have sent again: you therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels:
Phlm.1:13 Whom I would have retained with me, that in your position he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel:
Phlm.1:14 But without your mind would I do nothing; that your benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly.
Phlm.1:15 For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that you should receive him for ever;
Phlm.1:16 Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto you, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?
Phlm.1:17 If you count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself.
Phlm.1:18 If he has wronged you, or owes you ought, put that on mine account;
Phlm.1:19 I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay it: although it be I do not say to you how you owe unto me even yours own self besides.
Phlm.1:20 Yea, brother, let me have joy of you in the Lord: refresh my bowels in the Lord.
Phlm.1:21 Having confidence in your obedience I wrote unto you, knowing that you will also do more than I say.
Phlm.1:22 But likewise prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you.
Phlm.1:23 There salute you Epaphras, my fellow-prisoner in Christ Jesus;
Phlm.1:24 Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellow labourers.
Phlm.1:25 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.  Amen.


